The basic pipeline for how Overseer runs a simulation is as follows:
- Using Python's multiprocessing module, Overseer (specifically, an instance of the [SimWorker](https://github.com/alexbcreiner0/Overseer/blob/main/src/overseer/SimWorker.py)) runs your simulation as a child process , circumnavigating Python's global interpreter lock (GIL) and allowing for smooth interaction with the application while the process runs. That said, this child process running is still a Python program, and thus limited to a single core. This performance bottleneck can, however, be avoided by writing your simulation in a different language and having the Python child process simply run that and collect the output. See [here](https://github.com/BC-LTEWG/Trade-Between-Capitalist-and-Labor-Time-Economies) for an example of this.
- By 'running your simulation', what we mean is that the child process attempts to see the function of your choosing in your `simulation.py` as a generator object, and iterate over it. Every iteration, it takes the data yielded by the generator and adds it to a queue. (If your function happens to `return` rather than `yield` an output, then this output is added to the queue just the same.)
- On a separate thread of the application process, a [BridgeWorker](https://github.com/alexbcreiner0/Overseer/blob/main/src/overseer/BridgeWorker.py) instance aggressively drains the queue on a timer. As it does this, it interprets the data received and aggregates it into an overall dictionary of trajectories. *If* you are yielding data which has been wrapped in the `Append` or `Extend` dataclasses (see below), then aggregation of data takes place entirely in the form of appending new elements to a list. Not a Numpy array! Python lists are optimized so that appending is amortized $O(1)$ time. Numpy arrays are not. If you are yielding Numpy arrays, that will slow things down a bit! 
- Meanwhile, the main thread, on a separate timer, repeatedly feeds a reference to that aggregated data being continually assembled by the `BridgeWorker` to matplotlib for graphing. This goes on until the `BridgeWorker` encounters a symbol that the simulation is finished, or is otherwise interrupted.
- Thus there is no fundamental big-Oh efficiency cost in the overall operation of Overseer. If a user chooses, they can adjust the Sim Speed in the GUI to slow it down deliberately. This simply forces the SimWorker to sleep in between iterations of the generator. If this is set to zero though, there is virtually no delay between your simulation being run and the results being available for matplotlib to plot. Often times this means that the user will not see their simulation 'animate' at all unless they slow the simulation down, and this reflects an important design choice. In Overseer, animation does not exist to allow you to make something which 'looks cool'. Rather, it serves a practical role of allowing you to monitor progress and see partial results as they appear. 
- Assuming correct usage then, the processing of data in Overseer is therefore $O(1)$ time (and space) complexity with respect to the data that the simulation is collecting. However, *this is not the same as the time complexity of the rendering itself*. Matplotlib does not allow users to plot individual points one at a time. It expects all of the data up front, and usually this means a total redraw each new time a visual update is to be applied. The rendering speed is therefore inversely *quadratic* time with respect to the desired framerate. If you set extremely high framerates, rendering might start to struggle. 
- *However, this will not actually cause the results you see to lag behind the simulation.* This is because the thread which gets hung up on the matplotlib rendering is separate from the thread which is draining the data queue. It will keep doing its job even when the rendering slows down. This means that the next time a frame is rendering it will render the entirety of what has been yielded by your simulation during that time frame. **Thus, while what you see rendering might become choppy, the simulation's progress will never outpace it. Overseer will always keep pace with your simulation, even when it appears to stutter visually.** 
